---
title: Java报错汇总
---
## 报错：org.springframework.jdbc.CannotGetJdbcConnectionException: Failed to obtain JDBC Connection; nested exception is com.mysql.cj.jdbc.exceptions.CommunicationsException: Communications link failure

解决方案：数据库没启动，启动数据库即可。

So, you have a

> com.mysql.jdbc.exceptions.jdbc4.CommunicationsException: Communications link failure
> java.net.ConnectException: Connection refused

I'm quoting from [this answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2839321/java-connectivity-with-mysql/2840358#2840358) which also contains a step-by-step MySQL+JDBC tutorial:

> If you get a `SQLException: Connection refused` or `Connection timed out` or a MySQL specific `CommunicationsException:  Communications link failure`, then it means that the DB isn't reachable at all. This can have one or more of the following causes:
>
> 1. IP address or hostname in JDBC URL is wrong.
> 2. Hostname in JDBC URL is not recognized by local DNS server.
> 3. Port number is missing or wrong in JDBC URL.
> 4. DB server is down.
> 5. DB server doesn't accept TCP/IP connections.
> 6. DB server has run out of connections.
> 7. Something in between Java and DB is blocking connections, e.g. a firewall or proxy.
>
> To solve the one or the other, follow the following advices:
>
> 1. Verify and test them with `ping`.
> 2. Refresh DNS or use IP address in JDBC URL instead.
> 3. Verify it based on `my.cnf` of MySQL DB.
> 4. Start the DB.
> 5. Verify if mysqld is started without the `--skip-networking option`.
> 6. Restart the DB and fix your code accordingly that it closes connections in `finally`.
> 7. Disable firewall and/or configure firewall/proxy to allow/forward the port.

参考：https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2983248/com-mysql-jdbc-exceptions-jdbc4-communicationsexception-communications-link-fai
